Add memory management document (#115)
tc39/proposal-async-context: MEMORY-MANAGEMENT.md

# Memory management in AsyncContext

A context (sometimes called a snapshot; or in the spec, "a List of Async Context
Mapping Records") is an immutable map from `AsyncContext.Variable` instances to
arbitrary JS values (or possibly also spec-internal values; see "Using
AsyncContext from web specs" in the main web integration document). Each agent
will have a `[[AsyncContextMapping]]` field which is a context, which we will
sometimes refer to as "the current context".

Given a variable `asyncVar`, which is an instance of `AsyncContext.Variable`,
running `asyncVar.run(value, callback)` will:
1. Create a new context which is a copy of the current context, except that
   `asyncVar` maps to `value`.
2. Set that new context as the current context.
3. Run the callback.
4. Restore the current context to the value it had before step 2.

By itself, this would only allow keeping memory alive implicitly within a call
stack, which would be no different from local variables from a stack frame being
kept alive while a function is running.

However, the thing that makes AsyncContext AsyncContext is that the context can
be propagated across asynchronous operations, which eventually cause tasks or

> microtasks to be enqueued. Some of these operations are defined in TC39, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
microtasks to be enqueued. Some of these operations are defined in ECMA-262, such as
```

`Promise.prototype.then` and `await`, but most of them are defined in web specs,
such as `setTimeout` and the many other APIs listed above.

For many of these async operations (such as `setTimeout` and `.then`), a
callback is run once or multiple times in a task or microtask. In those cases,
the operation can be seen as keeping a strong reference to the callback, and it
will also keep a strong reference to the context that was current at the time
that the API was called to start that operation. When the operation is finished,
that reference will be removed.

For events, we do not store the context in which `addEventListener` is
called (though see the next paragraph on the fallback context). Instead, the
context is propagated from the web API that caused it, if any. For APIs that
cause events to fire asynchronously (e.g. XHR), this would involve storing a
reference to the context when the API is called (e.g. `xhr.send()`), and keeping
it alive until no events can be fired anymore from that asynchronous operation
(e.g. until the XHR request finishes, errors out or is aborted).

`addEventListener`, however, would need changes with the fallback context

> proposal[^1]. The initial version of this proposal would allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
approach[^1]. The initial version of this proposal would allow
```

It's not really its own proposal, it's just a piece of this whole proposal.

or a few objects.

[^1]: This proposal isn't described in any depth in the main web integration
document because the details are still being worked out. See
<https://github.com/tc39/proposal-async-context/issues/107>.

The web integration document says that observers (such as MutationObserver,
IntersectionObserver...) would use the registration context for their callbacks;
which means when the observer is constructed, it would store a reference to the
current context, which would never be released while the observer is alive.
However, it seems like it might be possible to change this behavior so the
context is not stored at all for observers; instead, the callbacks would be
called with the empty context.

Although this document and the web integration one describe the context
propagations that must happen due to the browser and JS engine's involvement,
it is also important to have in mind how authors might propagate contexts
implicitly. For example, from the browser's perspective, `requestAnimationFrame`
only keeps the context referenced until the rAF callback is called. However, the
context is active when the callback is called, and the callback is likely to

> call `requestAnimationFrame` again, continuing to propagate the same context.

Reviewer 2: > For example, from the browser's perspective, `requestAnimationFrame`
only keeps the context referenced until the rAF callback is called.

I didn't get the point after "However, ...". Would you mind elaborating on it?

Author: The point was that, although from the perspective of the browser internals, the context from the rAF call only gets propagated to that callback and not to any follow-up rAF callbacks, the author code in the callback itself almost certainly will call rAF without changing the context, which might keep that context alive indefinitely. So that should also be taken into account when considering memory leaks caused by AsyncContext.

Author: Reworded to make it clearer.

microtasks to be enqueued. Some of these operations are defined in TC39, such as
`Promise.prototype.then` and `await`, but most of them are defined in web specs,
such as `setTimeout` and the many other APIs listed above.

For many of these async operations (such as `setTimeout` and `.then`), a
callback is run once or multiple times in a task or microtask. In those cases,
the operation can be seen as keeping a strong reference to the callback, and it
will also keep a strong reference to the context that was current at the time
that the API was called to start that operation. When the operation is finished,
that reference will be removed.

For events, we do not store the context in which `addEventListener` is
called (though see the next paragraph on the fallback context). Instead, the
context is propagated from the web API that caused it, if any. For APIs that
cause events to fire asynchronously (e.g. XHR), this would involve storing a
reference to the context when the API is called (e.g. `xhr.send()`), and keeping
it alive until no events can be fired anymore from that asynchronous operation
(e.g. until the XHR request finishes, errors out or is aborted).

> `addEventListener`, however, would need changes with the fallback context

Reviewer: What do you think about describing the latest iteration of the proposal, and just keep a footnote saying "the old version would capture the whole snapshot, but we are not doing that anymore"?

Author: While doing this, I noticed that some of your previous suggestions weren't applied, even though Github says they were. I also made those changes.
